docs: add migration guideline and documentation for Navbar v5 [UFO-1810] (#3143)
contentful/forma-36: packages/components/navbar/MIGRATION.md

| `variant`                     | `wide` &#124; `fullscreen` | Size variation of the Navbar. `wide` sets `contentMaxWidth` to `1524px`        | New       |
| `aria`                        | object                     | Aria labels for different areas of the navigation bar to improve accessibility | New       |
| └─ `labelMainNavigation`      | string                     | `aria-label` for main navigation                                               |           |
| └─ `labelSecondaryNavigation` | string                     | `aria-label` for secondary navigation                                          |           |
| └─ `labelPromotions`          | string                     | `aria-label` for promotions                                                    |           |
| └─ `labelAccount`             | string                     | `aria-label` for account                                                       |           |

#### Removed Props

The following props will no longer be accepted by the Navbar Component. This table gives an overview of how to replace the contents in the New structure.

> | Property Name      | Type            | Description                                                                                  |
> | ------------------ | --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
> | `children`         | React.ReactNode | Child elements to be rendered inside the `Navbar`; must now be split into appropriate props. |
> | `search`           | React.ReactNode | Search component; should now be added to `secondaryNavigation` as a `Navbar.Item`.           |
> | `help`             | React.ReactNode | Help component; should now be added to `secondaryNavigation` as a `Navbar.Item`.             |
> | `badge`            | React.ReactNode | Badge component; badges can be added in `secondaryNavigation` or `mainNavigation`.           |
> | `bottomRightItems` | React.ReactNode | Items rendered on the bottom-right of the navbar; should now go to `secondaryNavigation`.    |
> | `topRightItems`    | React.ReactNode | Items rendered on the top-right of the navbar; should now go to `secondaryNavigation`.       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Property Name      | Type            | Description                                                                                  |
| ------------------ | --------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `children`         | `React.ReactNode` | Child elements to be rendered inside the `Navbar`; must now be split into appropriate props. |
| `search`           | `React.ReactNode` | Search component; should now be added to `secondaryNavigation` as a `Navbar.Item`.           |
| `help`             | `React.ReactNode` | Help component; should now be added to `secondaryNavigation` as a `Navbar.Item`.             |
| `badge`            | `React.ReactNode` | Badge component; badges can be added to `mainNavigation` or  `secondaryNavigation`.           |
| `bottomRightItems` | `React.ReactNode` | Items rendered on the bottom-right-hand side of the navbar; should now go to `secondaryNavigation`.    |
| `topRightItems`    | `React.ReactNode` | Items rendered on the top-right-hand side of the navbar; should now go to `secondaryNavigation`.       |
```

      />
    </>
  }
  promotions={
    <>
      <TextLink>Upgrade</TextLink>
    </>
  }
  secondaryNavigation={
    <>
      <Navbar.Item label="Quick Search" icon={<MagnifyingGlassIcon />} />
    </>
  }
  switcher={
    <Navbar.Switcher
      isAlias={isAlias}
      envVariant={envVariant}
      space="Space"
      environment="Environment name"
    />
  }
  account={
    <>
      <Navbar.Badge>Trial</Navbar.Badge>
      <Navbar.Account
        username="Conny Contentful"
        avatar="avatar.jpg"
        initials="CC"
        hasNotification={hasNotification}
        notificationVariant="info"
        label="Account settings"
      />
    </>
  }
  aria={{
    labelMainNavigation: 'Main Navigation',
    labelSecondaryNavigation: 'Secondary Navigation',
    labelPromotions: 'Promotions',
    labelAccount: 'My Account',
  }}
  mobileNavigation={
    <>
      <Navbar.MenuItem title="Content" icon={<PenNibIcon />} />
      <Navbar.Submenu title="Apps" icon={<PuzzlePieceIcon />}>
        <Navbar.MenuItem title="App 1" />
        <Navbar.MenuItem title="App 2" />
      </Navbar.Submenu>
    </>
  }
  mobileNavigationProps={{ label: 'Menu' }}
/>
```

## Compund Components

> > [!CAUTION]
> > Some of the compund components no longer exist to simplify the usage and design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!CAUTION]
> Some of the compound components no longer exist to simplify the usage and design.
```

The Navbar still uses a variety of compound components to enable styling and functionalites for individual parts of the main component.

> ### Removed Compund Components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Removed Compound Components
```

| Removed Component     | Replacement                        | Description                                                                                                     |
| --------------------- | ---------------------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `Navbar.Help`         | `Navbar.Item`, `Navbar.MenuItem`   | Use `Navbar.Item` for the main trigger element and `Navbar.MenuItem` as its children to create the Popout Menu. |
| `Navbar.Search`       | `Navbar.Item`                      | Use `Navbar.Item` for the main trigger element                                                                  |
| `Navbar.SwitcherItem` | `Navbar.Switcher`                  | `NavbarSwitcher` no longer reuqires `Navbar.SwitchterItem` as child.                                            |
| `Navbar.TopbarItem`   | `Navbar.Item` or `Navbar.MenuItem` | The Topbar area got removed, children of this property should move to `secondaryNavigation` or `promotions`     |

## Navbar.Account

> [!NOTE]
> This component does not contain breaking changes

> This compound component is used to generate the Accountmenu, the Menutrigger is represented by the Users Avatar. It should be handed over to the Navbar via the `account` property which will be rendered as the last element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This compound component is used to generate the account menu; the user's Avatar represents the menu trigger. It should be handed over to the Navbar via the `account` property, which will be rendered as the last element.
```

### Code Example

```jsx
<Navbar
  account={
    <Navbar.Account
      username="Conny Contentful"
      avatar="avatar.jpg"
      initials="CC"
      hasNotification={hasNotification}
      notificationVariant="info"
      label="Account settings"
    >
      <Navbar.MenuItem title="Account settings" icon={<WrenchIcon />} />
      <Navbar.MenuItem title="Dashboard" />
      <Navbar.MenuDivider />
      <Navbar.MenuItem
        title="External link"
        as="a"
        href="https://www.contentful.com"
        target="_blank"
      />
      <Navbar.MenuDivider />
      <Navbar.MenuItem title="Log out" />
    </Navbar.Account>
  }
/>
```

### Navbar.Account prop overview table

> | Property Name         | Type                                            | Description                                                             | Status    |
> | --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
> | `children`            | React.ReactNode                                 | Menu items to be rendered in the account dropdown                       | Unchanged |
> | `className`           | string                                          | Enables additional styling                                              | Unchanged |
> | `testId`              | string                                          | Sets `data-test-id` property (default: 'cf-ui-navbar-account-trigger')  | Unchanged |
> | `username`            | string                                          | Name of the user displayed in the account menu                          | Unchanged |
> | `avatar`              | string                                          | URL of the user's avatar image                                          | Unchanged |
> | `initials`            | string                                          | Initials to display if no avatar image is provided                      | Unchanged |
> | `hasNotification`     | boolean                                         | Shows a notification badge on the avatar                                | Unchanged |
> | `notificationVariant` | `'warning'` &#124; `'negative'` &#124; `'info'` | Variant of the notification badge (default: `'warning'`)                | Unchanged |
> | `label`               | string                                          | Accessible label for the account menu trigger (default: 'Account menu') | New       |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Property Name         | Type                                            | Description                                                             | Status    |
| --------------------- | ----------------------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `children`            | `React.ReactNode`                                 | Menu items to be rendered in the account dropdown                       | unchanged |
| `className`           | `string`                                          | Enables additional styling                                              | unchanged |
| `testId`              | `string`                                          | Sets `data-test-id` property (default: `cf-ui-navbar-account-trigger`)  | unchanged |
| `username`            | `string`                                          | Name of the user displayed in the account menu                          | unchanged |
| `avatar`              | `string`                                          | URL of the user's avatar image                                          | unchanged |
| `initials`            | `string`                                          | Initials to display if no avatar image is provided                      | unchanged |
| `hasNotification`     | `boolean`                                         | Shows a notification badge on the avatar                                | unchanged |
| `notificationVariant` | `'warning'` &#124; `'negative'` &#124; `'info'` | Variant of the notification badge (default: `warning`)                | unchanged |
| `label`               | `string`                                          | Accessible label for the account menu trigger (default: `Account menu`) | new       |
```

## Navbar.Badge

> [!NOTE]
> This components usage has not changed and does not contain breaking changes

This compound component is used for highlights and promotions. It should be used as a element applied to the `promotions` or `account` prop on the Navbar component

### Code Example

```jsx
<Navbar promotions={<Navbar.Badge>Trial</Navbar.Badge>} />
```

### Navbar.Badge prop overview table

> | Property Name | Type              | Description                                                                | Status    |
> | ------------- | ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
> | `children`    | React.ReactNode   | Content to be displayed inside the badge                                   | Unchanged |
> | `as`          | React.ElementType | The element type to render the badge as (e.g., `'span'`, default: `'div'`) | Unchanged |
> | `className`   | string            | Enables additional styling                                                 | Unchanged |
> | `testId`      | string            | Sets `data-test-id` property (default: 'cf-ui-navbar-badge')               | Unchanged |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Property Name | Type              | Description                                                                | Status    |
| ------------- | ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `children`    | `React.ReactNode`   | Content to be displayed inside the badge                                   | unchanged |
| `as`          | `React.ElementType` | The element type to render the badge as (e.g., `span`, default: `div`) | unchanged |
| `className`   | `string`            | Enables additional styling                                                 | unchanged |
| `testId`      | `string`            | Sets `data-test-id` property (default: `cf-ui-navbar-badge`)               | unchanged |
```

## Navbar.Item

> [!NOTE]
> This component does not contain breaking changes

> This component generates the Navigation Items. It expects a callback function and can not be used as a normal link. It is versatile and can be used with a title, as a Icon-Only Element or as a Dropdown Menu. It can be handed over to the area properties `mainNavigation` `secondaryNavigation` or `account`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This component generates the Navigation Items. It expects a callback function and can not be used as a normal link. It is versatile and can be used with a title, as an icon-only element, or as a dropdown menu. It can be handed over to the area properties `mainNavigation` `secondaryNavigation`, or `account`
```

### Code Examples

#### Icon only

Use Navbar.Item as Icon only Element to replace for example the Navbar.Search component. To generate an Icon only Navbar.Item do not hand over a `title` property but `label` instead. For accessibility, the label is required, it will also be shown as a tooltip on hover of the element.

```jsx
<Navbar.Item
  onClick={() => doSomething()}
  label="Quick Search"
  icon={<MagnifyingGlassIcon />}
/>
```

#### Icon and text or just text

This is the default use-case of the `Navbar.Item`, the `title` property is to contain the title of the item, icons will be shown as start icon left of the title.

```jsx
<Navbar.Item
  title="Content"
  icon={<PenNibIcon />}
  isActive={isActive}
  onClick={() => doSomething()}
  isDisabled={isDisabled}
/>
```

#### As menu trigger

> `Navbar.Item` accepts children, as soon as you hand over child-items, it will automatically become a dropodown menu trigger. It can be combined with `title` and `icon` or with `icon` and `label` for an icon-only menu.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Navbar.Item` accepts children. As soon as you hand over child-items, it will automatically become a dropdown menu trigger. It can be combined with `title` and `icon` or with `icon` and `label` for an icon-only menu.
```

| Property Name | Type            | Description                                                 | Status    |
| ------------- | --------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| `className`   | string          | Enables additional styling                                  | Unchanged |
| `testId`      | string          | Sets test-id property (default: 'cf-ui-menu-section-title') | Unchanged |
| `children`    | React.ReactNode | Contains the actual title displayed                         | Unchanged |

## Navbar.Submenu

> [!NOTE]
> This is a New Compound Component to help generating the responsive mobile navigation

`Navbar.Submenu` can be used to generate a nested Menu, it expects `Navbar.MenuItem` as children. It should only be used in the `mobileNavigation` property of the Navbar.

### Code Example

```jsx
<Navbar
  mobileNavigation={
    <>
      <Navbar.MenuItem title="Content" icon={<PenNibIcon />} />
      <Navbar.Submenu title="Apps" icon={<PuzzlePieceIcon />}>
        <Navbar.MenuItem title="App 1" />
        <Navbar.MenuItem title="App 2" />
      </Navbar.Submenu>
    </>
  }
/>
```

### Navbar.Submenu prop overview table

> | Property Name | Type            | Description                                                                                          | Status |
> | ------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
> | `title`       | string          | Title text displayed for the submenu                                                                 | New    |
> | `icon`        | React.ReactNode | Icon displayed before the title, required                                                            | New    |
> | `children`    | React.ReactNode | `Navbar.MenuItem` elements to be rendered inside the submenu                                         | New    |
> | `testId`      | string          | Sets `data-test-id` property (passed to the submenu container, default: 'cf-ui-navbar-submenu-list') | New    |
> | `onOpen`      | () => void      | Callback fired when the submenu opens                                                                | New    |
> | `onClose`     | () => void      | Callback fired when the submenu closes                                                               | New    |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Property Name | Type            | Description                                                                                          | Status |
| ------------- | --------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------ |
| `title`       | `string`          | Title text displayed for the submenu                                                                 | new    |
| `icon`        | `React.ReactNode` | Icon displayed before the title, required                                                            | new    |
| `children`    | `React.ReactNode` | `Navbar.MenuItem` elements to be rendered inside the submenu                                         | new    |
| `testId`      | `string`          | Sets `data-test-id` property (passed to the submenu container, default: `cf-ui-navbar-submenu-list`) | new    |
| `onOpen`      | `() => void`      | Callback fired when the submenu opens                                                                | new    |
| `onClose`     | `() => void`      | Callback fired when the submenu closes                                                               | new    |
```

## Navbar.Switcher

> [!Caution]
> Navbar.Switcher has removed elements
> The following elements have been removed or changed in the New Navbar.Switcher API and require code changes:
>
> - Compound component `Navbar.SwitcherItem`
> - `children` only allowed when `isLoading:true`
> - `logo` prop
> - `isCircle` prop

> The Navbar.Switcher component is used for displaying the current space and environment names. It can also be used as trigger element to open a space switcher menu. The New design and usage is much more simplified and no longer requires `Navbar.SwitcherItem` to build the breadcrumb style display. The `Navbar.Switcher` should always be handed over via the `switcher` property to ensure proper positioning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `Navbar.Switcher` component is used for displaying the current space and environment names. It can also be used as a trigger element to open a space switcher menu. The New design and usage are much simplified and no longer require `Navbar.SwitcherItem` to build the breadcrumb style display. The `Navbar.Switcher` should always be handed over via the `switcher` property to ensure proper positioning.
```
